oligarchs internet entrepreneur new
money billionaires are springing up
faster than ever before
and with new money come brash new
attitudes wealth now it doesn't mean
forty fifty sixty million it means in
the billions generation hyper rich has
arrived it's kind of blingy and more out
there than it used to be it's like
you've got a 300 foot yacht but he's got
500 foot yacht now you've got status
anxiety you have the old money versus
the new money the individuals spending
here there and everywhere on everything
bling and everything sherry billionaires
are the new celebrity and just like
celebrities many new money billionaires
are not afraid to be seen to be
extravagant and they want grand iconic
toys that scream check me out
seems they've checked a box which says
yacht or plane or stud farm or mini
stately home
if they have no background of being rich
or not the etiquette or the finesse I
think it can become very very stressful
well there is a disorder now that the
coin is called acquired situational
narcissism middle-class people just like
you and me who become billionaires
overnight they're becoming you know
obscenely vain and and drunk on their
own self-importance they wanted to show
that they belong so that's when people
start competing amongst you know who's
got their children the best schools
she's got the more expensive handbags
who's got the prettier wife who's got
the better looking children which is an
awful thing to say and who of course has
got the most outrageous gin Palace on
the Med this is the world of billionaire
toys Monaco in July is a mecca for mega
yachts and it's a chance for their
owners to measure up against their
fellow billionaires floating villas
mobile palaces or ego boosting phallic
symbols they all shout that's right I
won ten years ago we had the haves and
the have yachts but now we have the
haves and the have Giga yachts and we
have the rich the super-rich and the
ultra rich to join this ultra exclusive
club you better have plenty of the
folding stock you'll be able to purchase
a yacht you've got part of East between
30 and 60 million pounds so that's your
first cost which is obviously enormous
and then you're more than likely if
you're that type of person who can
afford to buy a yacht you'll want it
refurbished as well so that's looking at
at least another probably four or five
million pounds if not a lot more than
that the running cost to fund your own
yacht
they really do cost astronomical amounts
of money running costs are the old
hidden nemesis of every boat owner
there's an old adage that you know you
should rent anything that flies floats
and fornicate
it costs a fornicator amount of money
just to keep your tub in the water and
then you've got to fill her up we use
about 1500 liters of fuel an hour and we
have a capacity of about seven hours of
fuel so every time we go at the gas
station we have to be about 40,000 euros
now 40,000 euros every 7 hours
it's a rude awakening to even the most
gung-ho of new-money billionaires it's
one thing buying a mega yacht but at the
highest echelons of showing us that's
simply not enough what sets the hyper
wealthy apart is their ability to build
a new yacht to their own specification
when you're that rich you can have
whatever you want well within reason we
help our clients wife who was wondering
whether we keep a pony on a boat for her
daughter the idea was to have an
exercising turntable at the back of the
yachts on the off day but they weren't
embarrassed to ask the question they
thought it was a reasonable question to
invert well I think it's fair to say
they live in a totally different world
they are increasingly living in a bubble
now suppose the ideal lifestyle for a
member of the super-rich is James Bond
crossed with the Bond villain we also
had a client they wanted to have a shark
tank there like a swimming pool but with
sharks in it well the true import be a
half shark half human with a glass wall
between the two again I didn't think I'd
be very kind of sharks
employing specialists naval architects
like Ed Dubois or Tim Haywood doesn't
come cheap and that's just the point
no one easy on you it's a very last
thing you need actually if you want to
see your money actually just vanishing
into thin air you buy a yacht why not if
you're worth a billion you and you spend
300 million in the yacht it's not a lot
of money every super yacht is a one-off
creation designed and built with
extraordinary craftsmanship I think of
them I hope it's not sacrilegious I
think of the Mormons as being today's
cathedrals cathedrals of the of the
Middle Ages were the most sophisticated
things on earth I think now yachts are
annals shipyard in Holland is where
nautical dreams come to life British
yacht designer Tim Haywood has come here
to see his latest beer moths take shape
it is remarkable to see this boat today
having spent the hours drawing it it's a
66 meter yacht built over three tiers
and the price well I watering on average
now we talked about kind of a million
euros a meter yes that is indeed around
66 million euros just for the built the
whole of the outside is hand sanded the
whole thing no the pulled your below for
that boat is going to be to three
million euros and that's just for the
outside for the interior design he'll
spend many millions more to furnish his
fantasy they want the latest gadget what
they've heard but but they want the
things out in films they want that awful
expression the James Bond factor they
want all those sort of Wow things unreal
life made real so the big TV screen is
there so if you want to have everybody
on the big long sofa watching a movie
you can do it like that on the other
hand if you want to look outside sorry
um you can turn the whole thing back
again so money really does make the
world go round
finally you're ready to weigh anchor and
get showy yacht is for every owner a
weapon off show off they want their
yacht to be the biggest and it causes
some genuine pain when when some other
dudes yacht comes in and it's bigger
than this they feel they failed even
though they've got an enormous sized
yacht
these boats are you know how big how big
do you want it I mean it's there's a
status field I think actually driven
than that okay big is all rather silly
but right up there will always be
someone else with a bigger yacht than
you I mean I know there are a couple of
fashion billionaires when their yachts
we're together in San Tropez literally
the other screamed across the water
mine's bigger than yours
mine's bigger than yours it's a it's a
bit of a cockfight
well let's see those nautical and
get fighting here are the world's
current top 5 gigawatts
at number five topaz weighs in around
12,000 tons and stretches 147 meters
and number four al Sayyed built for the
royal family of Oman measures 155 meters
accommodates 70 passengers and 154 crew
members
dubai at number three was originally
commissioned by big-spending prince
geoffrey of brunei in 1996 construction
ground to a halt due to lack of funds
five years later Sheikh Mohammed bin
Rashid Al Maktoum finished the job in
style
it's estimated that Russian oligarch
Roman Abramovich is eclipsed cost him
nearly 1 billion dollars rumored to have
its own intruder detecting system and
anti paparazzi laser shield it's just
the ticket for a Roman holiday
once the biggest yacht in the world it
shrank in 2013 when an even bigger fish
splashed into the pond
launched in April 2013 azam is this
year's top of the yachts
and most yacht spotters reckon it's the
plaything of the ma of Abu Dhabi this
94,000 horsepower vessel travels at more
than 30 knots which makes it not only
the longest but the fastest super yachts
in the world coming up
playtime in Paradise the ultimate
high-end toys for new money billionaires
left out in the cold just because you're
super rich doesn't mean the super-rich
accept you there is this isolation that
billionaires have to endure and staffing
the super toys millionaire style if
you're a size 12 to 14 it's very
difficult to do your job the last thing
they want to see is somebody that's from
people newly made billionaires have got
it bad decked out with brand-new
showpiece toys they're finally into high
society except it's not necessarily the
navona of their dreams
a billionaire spends his whole life
trying to accumulate wealth to escape
society and then when he gets there he
spends his whole time trying to
reinitiate himself back into society
there is this isolation that
billionaires have to endure just because
you're super rich doesn't mean the
super-rich accept you because the
pecking order amongst the super-rich is
quite stratified so on the top of the
super-rich league are they extremely
well-educated well-spoken art
enthusiastic sophistic
they do not feel that they are the same
as the next super rich guy whose owns
three yards but can't pull a sentence
together your new old money pals don't
deem you worthy so what do you do you
head back to your trusty friends from
the good old day I mean the idea that
you know you've been invited on
someone's yacht yippee
I'm first of all you're expected to
leave 10% of the cost of the yacht in
tips which by the way is more than
flying around the world first class on
top of that the men who come and take
the little boat that takes you shuffles
you back and from from the eye they
expect to be tipped as well
so actually unless you're very rich you
can't afford to be a guest of someone
who's very rich I think the unspoken
contract between the host and the guest
is that the guest is there in some way
to entertain the host and the other
guests and you've got to play the game
you've got to be part of the fun and you
know sing for your supper
I was once having lunch with a
billionaire it's something very amusing
which was that when you invite friends
on on your super yacht they take
everything in the room they basically
walked out with the entire contents to
hell with your friends you're a
billionaire you don't need them anymore
plus you've got this year's ultimate sea
going super toys first released in 1972
40 years on the jet ski is still the
undisputed hooligan of the high seas but
the billionaire who thinks he's above it
all well six inches above it all
then the 40 mile an hour hover pod is
the only way to fly
disliked by captains and crew alike the
super slide is every little big kids
three big kids with 130,000 pounds to
spare that is the billionaire life
encapsulated in one fabulous toy full of
ups and downs and spins and swoops for
the wealthy flyboy at play the fly board
is guaranteed to raise pulses and
eyebrows across the marina now to mere
mortals this cutting-edge contraption
may look like a submarine but no they'd
be wrong it is in fact an underwater
aeroplane the super falcon can fly to
depths of 120 metres and it's all yours
for one easy instalment of 1.7 million
dollars but even underwater soaring can
become boring eventually and at this
point the lonely new-money billionaire
looks to his household for company so
they end up having to invite their
members of staff know mostly their
decorators of designers their personal
chefs to spend the holidays with them
but of course it's always on their terms
and servicing this whole billionaire
staff knees up yet more personnel are
brought in to cater for all on ball the
last thing they want to see is somebody
that's frumpy they want somebody who's
young vibrant attractive she needs not
to be oversized because if you're a size
12 to 14 it's very difficult to do your
job in a correct manner you hear all
sorts of stories of stewardesses and
captains to be me as well as
stewardesses are Nona's I think it's
quite a common trap for girls to fall
into those stories in the end with the
stewardess Dean on the streets to be
honest and is a good job but of course
it's not just the stewardesses and let's
be fair stewards servicing the boat
bound billionaire a whole industry
caters to their demands and in can
expats Ellen and Gabby have set up a
fruit and vege business catering to the
appetites of the super-rich this is our
fruit and veg fridge and all afterimages
prepared a temperature well at a
constant temperature Marshall our client
one day asked us to send her some papaya
fruit down to Sardinia so we had to
charge her a private jets just to put
the fruit on board pilot wasn't too
happy actually get asked to send our
fruit and veg to the Maldives with Lee
beam Seychelles him at the Caribbean so
we send a lot in winter we we we export
a lot oh oh yeah we have a lovely
in-house florist called shoe shoe
he just does he'll bend over backwards
to help you I love my job
it's of course her 20 years 60 years at
a makers job he's really lovely and the
boats adore him he goes onto the boats
he'll talk through with the chief
stewardesses and he also comes on board
some of the yachts with us and places
the flowers on board for them so the
girls don't have to do anything
everything in repeat as party planners
to the hyper wealthy Heidi and Bruno are
accustomed to providing immediate
gratification some of the world's most
demanding guests mega yacht owners when
they decide to organize a party it's
last-minute it's always that's me
the team is the key and they do work
under pressure and they know his style
which could get a little erratic sadena
como se Co Co Co on Samos roomie -
Samantha blew a key time problem
extradicted problem tempo tempo thought
you Civic we faked you swell about
dessert on Cola mrs. seiderman ADA
nummies whatever you want the pressure
is on as Bruno and Heidi prepare a huge
boat party fit for a princess 21 year
old she's having a birthday party she
expects a lot
she's pretty demanding well the whole
family pretty demanding red party red
they're Russian client wants a
six-course dinner with fine wines for 30
guests they've insisted on a top DJ from
London dancers from Paris and fresh
lobsters from the bottom of the sea all
to be on their yacht by 8:00 p.m. this
evening they are not leaving tours
French cuisine they're looking for and
good quality fresh and they do tend to
have a lot of courses and meals do take
tend to take a long time the Russians
might not say bomb - French food but
vino is a definite we this one is a
cuvette very rare it's a from champagne
blonde blonde vintage 2002 and this is a
golden real gold label and champagne
it's the the top covere from Audria it's
a crystal but pink which is quite rare
but for the big occasion it's is the one
we suggest we try to have them to just
be open we have to be expendable to wait
for them to understand for them to want
it if it's not expensive they won't want
it we have something interesting that we
use a lot for charity on the boots this
is the best the best seller it's real
gold on it's very nice suddenly there's
a problem the DJ is stuck in the UK
Vampirella vo separado
tienen Ottaviano supposed to swallow me
for absolutely more
it's a DJs in London when we always have
okay how much how much is it first
private flight have a look the Mont look
read them on the paper for me I can't be
anyone else oh yes I'm what about dances
fact dances from Paris where they still
coming very Shabbat suppose is your
posture typical van we had one client
who arrived with her baby on and was
going to her super yacht and she forgot
her baby monitor
and so we doesn't seem like a problem to
you alright but we were we were said we
were going by no she didn't want to
board one she wanted her own so I had to
charter a jet to Moscow to get her baby
monitor baby monitor arrived and life
continued for hours till deadline and
now it's all hands on deck from mad dash
down the coast the clients boat if he's
back now on next up Monaco I feel really
at my best when I feel that pressure
it's like a drug here we are in
marvellous Monaco the boat is a is here
we only have a small window of time
where we have to get everything on board
before it leaves the key all very
experienced evolved very private and all
surrounded by bodyguards it's a very
discreet industry in a funny way these
boats are so showy it sort of
contradicts everything that they want to
be so you have to keep it low-key
we arrived the install we exit
for the next project coming up not
content with peer pressure at sea
competitive billionaires head for the
skies when somebody feels good about
spending their money there is no limit
to what you'll spend it's very very
addictive so once you start flying
private you will never stop the big
thing now is you have your own Airbus
with the bedroom with showers with a
gymnasium or probably this you know
there's probably a golf course in it now
to the outside world
the billionaire lifestyle is one of
endless pleasure they have yachts and
they have private jets but flying toys
like all fabulous playthings are only
for the deepest of pockets price could
be anywhere from three million dollars
to one hundred million dollars have
operating costs that run anywhere from
about 1 million dollars a year to about
5 million dollars a year depending on
the size and how much you use the
airplanes if you're flying in a private
jet that sets the scene it's an unspoken
sentence but I'm for real I've got money
I can get the deal done
well from what I can tell from my sublet
spirits on private jets was that mostly
it creates an enormous amount of stress
I was once flying back from
Czechoslovakia and I was offered a lift
by this billionaire who had his plane to
himself was being very kind to the rest
of the guests and said I'll give you a
lift back well all the people who took
British Airways got home in two and a
half hours and sort of four and a half
hours later we were still searching
around Gatwick at least one billionaires
are delayed they're not stuck by the
lose of their knees around their ears to
the high-net-worth traveler flying as a
world of private airports and personal
service where they are the only customer
now Katinka hello it's June I'm good I'm
good just checking that you're on your
way in the traffic's okay and
everything's fine
fantastic well I'm here I'm ready the
plane is in position so we're just
waiting for you and blue to arrive it's
June's job to care for her customers
every creature comfort onboard today
miss Katinka niku and her traveling
companion Roo
the Rottweiler who was born with a
silver spoon in his jaws it's very very
addictive so once you start flying
private you will never stop giving up
that private jet ha ha ha that's the
hardest thing to do we've got the aircon
on for you so be nice people yeah there
are clearly children who fly around on
private jet the whole time I have a
friend whose daughter was once flown on
a commercial airliner and she said no
daddy are these all your friends um
she'd never seen 300 people in the same
plane before
the first day of the birthday week first
aiders birth coming in to celebrate as
the jet salesman to the super-rich New
Yorker Steve Basar no lives the
lifestyle of his customers I love my
life I have the most fantastic life I
have this girlfriend I have the best
friends I live at work in a fantastic
environment after all if you can't feed
them join them
dress San Tropez normal unfortunately
chic yeah unfortunately I have to
slide back to London to go to the
offices ever the businessman for Steve
it's always work before play he's off to
make money
did you hit 40 million or is it just
love steve is one of a handful of go-to
guys if you're a billionaire looking for
a jet because he wants his ultra
high-net-worth customers to come to him
he's opened a retail environment they
just can't resist complete with a jet
trading desk as a then but the real
kicker is his billionaire friendly mega
app the multi-million ometer what do you
think the budget is that you like to
stay around call it 10 to 15 super
successful people super wealthy people
super powerful people there's one thing
they love to do is talk about what they
do and who they are and you know if you
ask them the right leading questions
they just pour it out can you run
quickly uh paradin on the operating cost
yep they're incredibly close operating
costs and you get an airplane that is
20% bigger and cabin so still pushes in
my acquisition price what's the
difference between both well that's
significantly more they will spend ten
million dollars on buying an asset but
they will decide to fly economy instead
of business class on an airline jet
because they can save $300 because it's
a big difference between enjoying your
money and wasting your money and when
somebody feels good about spending their
money there is no limit to what you'll
spend by
the moon let me play among the stars
Steve started out selling to the
original Jet Set I was really fortunate
selling jet to Frank Sinatra it was an
unbelievable opportunity and when you
talk to somebody like that gives a
feeling of really accomplishing you're
really proud of what you're doing so
let's look at the comparison of the two
airplanes from a schematic standpoint
Steve's client has a relatively modest
thirteen million dollars to spend on a
secondhand 8 seater jet born salesman
Steve knows the power of one-upmanship
and heads next-door to show exactly what
a 300 million dollar jet looks like so
come on in here
and you can experience actually a little
bit bigger than the plane you're looking
for but actually put you into the space
so it's a it's a little bit more just
said a lot of work if I can afford that
so Steve keep doing it okay I have a lot
more than you got it come on in here
have a seat thank you
one fantastic cabin this is an exact
replica of a Airbus 3 1 9 corporate jet
this airplane probably new is about 8590
million dollars a little bit more than
what you're looking for but it could be
your second step third step third step I
hope you're right me too so by the time
you have 600 people on your payroll who
travel with you because you can't go
anywhere without two personal chefs and
six pas and your financial manager and
your tax consultant so then you need a
Boeing you know you need an Airbus and
the big thing now is you have your own
Airbus with the bedroom with showers
with a gymnasium or probably this unit
there's probably a golf course in it now
let's go check into the WoW dining room
of the Airbus or the conference room and
it actually extends even further to the
bedroom of the airplane
no more Steve no more yeah you know what
upgrade it
billionaires may claim their Jets are
just time-saving business tools but
being billionaires they can't resist a
little competition
in 2008 American billionaire Steve Wynn
took private jet ownership to a new
level when he decked out a Boeing 737
one is talking more about new money than
old money and culture where visible
wealth is important speaking of which
one year later Wynn was trumped by
Donald who took to the skies in his own
Boeing 757 you'll notice the seat belts
as well as everything else are 24 karat
gold-plated
then roaming Roman Abramovich claimed a
Laurel proud owner of his very own
Boeing 767 but in 2007 there was a new
sultan of bling Prince Alwaleed bin
Talal sold his Airbus a380 is estimated
to cost over 500 million dollars once
his taste had been accounted for but
soon of course there will be one still
better I think if someone developed a
supersonic aircraft I know a lot of
people that be interested in buying one
if super yachts are about billionaires
playing host to privileged guests then
the private jet is the perfect place for
the billionaire to entertain himself you
can do whatever you want on a corporate
jet because nobody's there to watch it
well if you own the aeroplane it's your
orgy you know you do what you like in
the back you smoke cigar smoke
cigarettes get drunk smash the place up
you can't really throw the TV out of the
window like a rock star unless you're on
the ground
the Jets are furnished often at a cost
of millions to meet the owners personal
needs and we've seen in this for a
larger seven four sevens and triple
sevens you see owners where they put in
cinemas jacuzzis bedrooms dining rooms
they kissed it out in the interior
design of their choice so basically the
world's our oyster some people you know
or just temporarily put a beach sand
with folding chairs in the back of a
plane some people from the Middle East
will have a chair that's always on a
magnetic compass that points to Mecca
but pilots must beware indulging the
owners every whim the consequences can
be fatal and there is a story true of a
boss of a big company who told his
pilots he could not be late for dinner
and they had to land and they missed the
runway crashed and everyone was killed
coming up
billionaire competitiveness gets out of
hand confessions of a car collector this
is a ridiculous
addiction and chaos in Knightsbridge
it's not all fun and games being a
billionaire on the plus side you've got
access to the most fabulous toys that
money can buy
not quite so wonderful is the constant
reminder that's always someone else out
there with an even bigger and Brasher
plaything for the super-rich there's a
silly season for showing off
August
and while the Russian and American
billionaires battle it out on the Med
another tribe of super-rich migrated to
Knightsbridge in central lung
within a 2-mile stretch you can probably
see 50 supercars
they've all got Arabic plates from Dubai
Qatar and Saudi Arabia there's a lot of
princes royal family lot of millionaires
a lot of billionaires and it's just a
great sight to see
it's fair to say that not everyone is
thrilled the area's become supercar
central
we're completely overtaken by these
incredibly expensive vulgar outrageously
noisy cars and it's just too much and I
know so many of the locals are actually
there leaving town because they can't
cope with it it's just horrific
it's a testosterone-fueled showdown as
very rich young men raise very expensive
fast cars in a battle to win over the
admiring hangers-on for many it's about
pulling power through astonishing
horsepower between supercar owners
there's a lot of competition so it's
always a case of who can get their car
featured on Instagram Facebook Twitter
YouTube more and how many hits they can
get so you'd literally get girls coming
up to the car and being like hey what
you doing - I've seen one red
Lamborghini have a number written on in
lipstick on the windscreen I'm princess
view of the supercar eNOS and they do
appreciate kind of the attention they
get from girls I think the car is pretty
good-looking very aggressive so I like
showing that around
we have Maseratis we have McLaren who
have a Camaro we have a GTR we could
show off as much as we like create some
noise
all the ties here a top-end so when your
Ferrari just isn't cutting the mustard
what are you going to do
well like reared here you have it
painted gold of course it's quite
expensive license cool finishing was
amazing I just love it it's not the
shyest of multi-millionaires riyadh just
likes to see his golden gas guzzler
formed over by the adoring masses this
cool by lexington people are smiling and
sit alien people when they see the gold
sauce awesome you know and if anyone
were to suggest it's perhaps just a
little bit over the top on five-time
world champion Andy boxy
I'm originally from Iran I live in
London these tricked-out me machines
have become bigger celebrities and their
multi-millionaire owners
trending online is the Tron Lamborghini
and putting the austere in steering
wheel the velvet Ferrari
you do see a lot of personalized cars
that have their own initials in the
headrest they have their initials on the
car and they really make it their own
car I had it wrapped in detailed exactly
as I wanted it was originally silver but
I hadn't got white with like the black
and red detailing in the wheels and all
that brand new it was over just over 100
grand but now it's probably about half
up oops
Needham for the super-wealthy spending
heaps of money to make your car less
sellable but you more attractive well
it's an expensive way to go about the
mating game and not everyone is after a
kiss and a quarter million pound lift
home billionaires beware British bobbies
and their weapons of mass humiliation
the annual Harrods Grand Prix is formula
fun for the billionaire boy racers the
only trouble is the Sloane Street
straight isn't really a racetrack
nevermind Schrute polish out perhaps
take the chance to get it plated
platinum whilst you're at it
for the billionaire who prefers to
marvel rather than mangle as a far less
physical pain to be born in high-end
motor acquisition if you want the
contents of your garage to trump all
competition you must suffer the pain
that hurts the hyper rich deepest the
pain of becoming significantly poorer
it's August 2014 and the bids for this
car a 1962 Ferrari GTO
are increasing by a million dollars a
pop the world record for the most
expensive car ever sold at auction is
about to be broken
the mystery phone bidder has agreed to
pay 39 million dollars that's 23 million
pounds for the Ferrari it's a new world
record and a huge sum to swallow the
resonator that is very simple to track
the results of auctions over the last
three or four years and one can see very
clearly how the values of these cars
will be entreating up and up and up
installing miracles have appreciated
just over four hundred and fifty percent
which is huge absolutely massive
Blenheim Palace Oxfordshire and a
high-end classic car auction as once
again brought out the hyper wealthy big
hitters 150 new money 160 170 170 hero
classic car auctioneer Chris routledge
is familiar with the new breed of
big-money buyers there are some clients
who will be quite nonce long I will say
buy it and that's an open-ended
instruction to buy it and if you've got
another competing bidder who equally has
an open end instruction to buy it you
get fireworks at fifty thousand now 52
for the ultra high-net-worth toy
consumer the competitive irritation are
being pushed to astronomical bids by
others equally determined is somewhat
offset by a rather wonderful tax loop
now working in their favor
on my left I'm asking for 60 wine
watches and cars are known as
deteriorating assets except they're not
actually looked noticed they're the
innate deteriorating assets actually
gone up in value massively in the last
10 years
but car collecting is not without its
snags Paul Bailey owns one of Britain's
most valuable collections of supercars
it is just absolutely fantastic to come
down here and think wow how cool is that
car and how lucky am I to have one or 39
for poll when it comes to hoarding Rich
List runarounds well more Ferrari Enzo
is more so this is my Lamborghini my
Aventador Ferrari 360 spider is even
more cars that are in most collections
often they're locked away wrapped up in
cotton wool people don't get to see them
they don't get driven may literally just
sit in someone's collection gathering
dust waiting for the day when that
person can double or triple or quadruple
their investment but Paul has succumbed
to another affliction that can ensnare
the super rich car collector my wife's
California this is a 360 Challenge
Stradale but here's the problem at which
point does a quirky horribly expensive
passion turn a wealthy sane man into a
full-blown petrol head case this is
volcano red pearlescent orange metallic
yellow I'm not afraid of a nice yellow
on a car is it this point metallic
silver I need to have a black one how
about now
16mm SLS Spiker Paul is addicted to
buying supercars it's as simple as that
at least his wife selena has a good grip
on his mounting obsession surely you
don't need that many cars you don't need
that many shoes you only have that many
handbags you don't need a lot of things
in life but it is our passion and we
love to have the amount of cars we have
and hopefully some more in the future
what do you do when a new one comes out
you really try hard not to buy it
but then you think well I'll just buy
one of those and that's a really cool
car to have Porsche Ferrari and the rest
will make sure that Paul's ravenous
desire can never be sated because Paul
is their perfect customer the dealers
are telling me that the gt3 RS is coming
out any moment now and then that's going
to be a car I'm going to have to have
because currently my gt3 RS is our
manual and the new ones are PDK this is
a ridiculous addiction in some ways I
think it it is as bad as alcohol drugs
or gambling I could probably have some
sort of medical help from somebody all
supercar habit would ruin most people
but as the value of his collection keeps
on rising an f40 it's gone up seven
times since I bought it this is perhaps
the only known addiction that pays for
itself
in the end every toy has its day
there will always be a newer brighter
ball to tickle a billionaires passing
fancy are the super-rich happening
probably happier than the super poor I
mean you know you can safely say that
but we have to ask why the accumulation
of wealth is the main driver in their
life in my experience the more money
people have the more problems they have
especially if you've come across a lot
of money very quickly Who am I now
people get trapped by the trappings of
their wealth boats and their planes it
all have to be taken care of and it
doesn't suite them at all I think the
very very rich I've always had something
to prove the thing that's been pushing
them forward is probably insecurity
making it force like their dad once said
to them some need to fulfill some desire
to prove something to the world
so are they happy no and that's what
drives them on